EMEKA MKPUME
15 JANUARY 2020
HOMEWORK 2a
T-SQL QUERY FUNDAMENTALS

1. order in which query clause are logically processed are as follows
a. FROM
b. WHERE
c. GROUP BY
d. HAVING
e. SELECT
f. ORDER BY.

2.The FROM clause is the very first query that is logically processed. in this clause, you specify the names of the tables you want to query and table operators that operates on those tables. 

3. In the WHERE clause, you specify a predicate or logical expression to filter the rows returned by the FROM phase.only rows for which the logical expression evaluates to TRUE are returned by the WHERE phase to the subsequent logical query processing phase.
 
4. You can use the GROUP BY phase to arrange the rows returned by the previous logical query processing phase in groups. the groups are determined by the elements you specify in the group by clause.

5.Previously, we define the WHERE clause as a row filter, the HAVING clause is a group filter. Only groups for which the HAVING predicate evaluates to TRUE are returned by having Phase to the next logical query processing phase.

6.the purpose of the SELECT statement is to query table, apply some logical manipulation and return a result. The SELECT CLAUSE is where you specify the attributes you want to return in the result table of the query. you base the expressions in the SELECT list on attributes from the queried tables, with or without further manipulation.

7.The DISTINCT clause is used in the SELECT statement to remove duplicate rows from a result set. The DISTINCT clause keeps one row for each group of duplicates. The DISTINCT clause can be used on one or more columns of a table. The SELECT DISTINCT statement is used to return only distinct (different) values. Inside a table, a column often contains many duplicate values; and sometimes you only want to list the different (distinct) values

8. You use the ORDER BY clause to sort the rows in the output for presentation purposes. in terms of logical query processing, ORDER BY is the very last clause to be processed. 

9.The LIMIT clause is used to set an upper limit on the number of tuples returned by SQL. 
It is important to note that this clause is not supported by all SQL versions. 
The SQL SELECT LIMIT statement is used to retrieve records from one or more tables in a database and limit the number of records returned based on a limit value. ... For databases such as SQL Server or MSAccess, use the SELECT TOP statement to limit your results.

10.The SELECT TOP clause is used to specify the number of records to return. The SELECT TOP clause is useful on large tables with thousands of records. Returning a large number of records can impact performance. Note: Not all database systems support the SELECT TOP clause.

11. the TOP filter is very practical, but it has two shortcomings-- it's not standard, and it doesnt support a skipping capability. T-SQL also supports a standard, TOP-like filter called OFFSET-FETCH, which does support a skipping option. this makes it very useful for ad-hoc paging purposes.
